# demographicAnalysis
This project is based on a data set called ERIMdata.xlsx that includes about 3,000 households in two midwestern cities in the United States. The data contain demographic information such as household incomes, number of household members, education levels as well as information on the purchases of retail products such as frozen dinners and yogurt. The data were collected by a marketing research firm, AC Nielsen.
Your assignment is to conduct business analysis on the data set using 1) data visualizations (e.g., charts and tables), 2) prediction (e.g., linear regression) and 3) classification (e.g., logistic regression, naïve Bayes, or kNN) techniques. The project deliverables from each group will include a written report (1 to 2 pages) that highlights the key findings and an appendix with additional information (e.g., relevant R code and output). Think of the following CRISP-DM phases and guidelines to plan for your analysis.
Business understanding: Describe the business opportunities that the data present and formulate relevant business questions.
Data understanding: Explore the data set with descriptive analytics tools and use the information to help determine whether or not data wrangling steps are needed for each variable. Examine the possibility of supervised and unsupervised analysis techniques and identify possible variables for further analysis. Keep in mind the business opportunities and questions formulated in the first phase.
Data preparation: Determine and perform the necessary data wrangling and preparation tasks based on the decision made during the business and data understanding phases.
Modeling: Implement the appropriate techniques and variables, explain the rationale for your selection(s), and present relevant analysis results and interpretation. Experiment with multiple models and identify the best model(s).
Evaluation: Refocus on the business objectives of the project. Evaluate whether the model(s) have properly achieved the business objectives outlined during the business understanding phase. Formulate actionable recommendations based on the findings.
Deployment: Communicate the findings and relevant business insights with a written report incorporate appropriate statistical information and visuals. The main focus of the written report should be placed on providing actionable business recommendations for a managerial and non- technical audience.
[BUS 497 project.pdf](https://github.com/kaimoy11/demographicAnalysis/files/9700052/BUS.497.project.pdf)
